so what are we really saying here are we
actually admitting that doctors and
nurses are paid too much in the United
States of America boy that's a sobering
chart
the other peculiar misleading half truth
or outright lie that Bernie Sanders has
been trading in is this notion that
Medicare for all would save taxpayers a
lot of money would save the United
States government a lot of money and
what is the one crucial variable
presumed in that calculus pay attention
here it's mentioned very briefly the
crucial assumption is that they would
reduce the wages paid to doctors and
nurses by 40 percent usual disclaimer at
the start of this video the fact that I
criticize the left-wing does not mean
that I myself am something other than
left-wing within American politics
I'd be considered quite far to the left
nevertheless I made the decision a very
long time ago that I don't want to be a
part of a religion that's built on a lie
when there are lies and inaccuracies on
the left whether it's the moderate left
or the far left what have you I am
honest with myself and I'm honest with
others about the lies inaccuracies and
errors that are to be found on my side
at the political spectrum I would advise
you and everyone else to do the same you
may have heard this many many times in
the last two years the claim that the
United States of America spends twice as
much on health care as other countries
around the world so here quoting a New
York Times article senator Bernie
Sanders and other Democratic candidates
for the 2020 elections often note that
the United States spends twice as much
on health care as other comparable
nations but gets less value in return Mr
Sanders has long railed against the
health care industry arguing that it it
has gotten rich at the expense of
regular Americans when we're looking at
politics and propaganda carefully
crafted messages of this kind it's
important to emphasize that the word
there is it
he doesn't say medical doctors he
doesn't say
nurses union he says it okay if he
blamed unionized nurses that would sound
right-wing that would sound conservative
the Steven it would be the same
statement if he blamed your local family
medical doctor well that might create
all kinds of conflict the general public
wants to imagine that the friendly
doctor and the friendly nurse that they
aren't the bad evil people who are
getting rich off the system it's just it
it's a depersonalized abstract system
that he's blaming not particular people
we continue here Mr Sanders likes to
cite the health care industry it along
with companies like Amazon and Walmart
as a prime example of the corporate
greed his campaign is fighting head-on
right corporate greed not medical
doctors greed right not nurses greed not
unionized hospital workers greed this
whole business of blaming corporate
greed is also a bit peculiar do you
think that in France they have no
corporate greed do you think that in
England they have no corporate looking
at these numbers we see something really
important that differentiates France
from the United States difference it
differentiates England from United
States it really does seem a bit surreal
to try to attribute this to some kind of
abstract notion like corporate greed or
some cut some conspiratorial idea of
what's going on behind the scenes it's
not behind-the-scenes people it's right
out here in front of you it's on the
surface people aren't seeing it because
they're actively choosing to ignore it
they want to maintain this myth of the
friendly family doctor that doctors and
nurses have your best interests at heart
when they don't they have their own best
interests at heart it's the greed of
doctors it's the greed of nurses it's
the greed of very real people with faces
inside the system it's not some kind of
abstract conspiratorial notion of the
system that exists apart from those
individual people so what are we really
saying here are we actually admitting
that dog
and nurses are paid too much in the
United States of America boy that's a
sobering chart when you make this claim
again and again Bernie Sanders and
Alexandra Ocasek are testing so we made
this claim again and again that health
care costs twice as much in the United
States of America as it does in France
you might put up this chart showing how
much or how little the United States of
America pays medical doctors compared to
France it's more than double you're
paying a huge amount in salaries to
doctors and nurses this is primary care
physicians the numbers become even more
startling when you look at specialists
whoa that's a lot of money that's a huge
gap the other peculiar misleading half
truth or outright lie that Bernie
Sanders has been trading and is this
notion that Medicare for all would save
taxpayers a lot of money would save the
United States government a lot of money
and what is the one crucial variable
presumed in that calculus pay attention
here it's mentioned very briefly the
crucial assumption is that they would
reduce the wages paid to doctors and
nurses by 40 percent we asked senator
Sanders spokesperson he told us that
while the study says Medicare for all
would increase the federal budget by
roughly 32 trillion dollars it also says
that the projected cost of all
healthcare expenditures in the US would
drop by two trillion dollars the study's
author says that that two trillion
dollar drop is not actually his
conclusion he said that's based on
assumptions made by senator sander
fact he wrote quote it is likely that
the actual cost of Medicare for all
would be substantially greater than
these estimates which assumes
significant administrative and drug cost
savings under the plan and also assumed
that health care providers operating
under Medicare for all will be
reimbursed it rates more than forty
percent lower than those currently paid
by private health insurance so there
it's mentioned so quickly that you could
miss it it doesn't really matter if
Bernie Sanders comes out and points his
finger at the nurses union now or later
if he were actually elected into power
he would then be put in the position the
same as a right-wing union buster of
saying no no no I don't care what
salaries your Union negotiated Union for
doctors Union for nurses you know for a
spot spittle workers the Bernie Sanders
administration the federal government is
going to force your wages to be lower
and dramatically lower maybe forty
percent maybe it would come down to the
same rates you see in those other
countries like France and so on so we
compare the two the difference between a
primary care doctor and a specialist in
France is almost a rounding error right
look at that they're almost the same in
France but then look at the United
States of America you're already paying
an unbelievable amount for primary care
and then it gets much more unbelievable
when we switch into specialists here's
another admission of the fundamental
underlying tension here in a Reuters
article
Americans use roughly the same amount of
Health Services as people and other
affluent nations the study found instead
health spending may be higher in the US
because prices are steeper for drugs
medical devices physician and nurse
salaries and administrative costs to
process medical claims hmm which one of
those do you think when you do the math
is the largest part of the cost of
delivering health care if States of
America obviously health care is what
you'd call a labor intensive industry
these are unbelievable wages to be
paying and yes the shall we say class
struggle that's going on here in reality
below the surface invisible no we're
really admitted to by Bernie Sanders nor
by the mainstream media employer this is
that medical doctors themselves not some
abstract depersonalized it not some
corporate conspiracy not corporate greed
medical doctors themselves are a
powerful lobby who have something to win
and something to lose in this debate and
they are playing to win and the left
wing is hampering itself by failing to
admit honestly and openly that the
enemies of Medicare for all in the
United States are the medical doctors
themselves
[Music]